---
published: true
layout: default
title: BDF Info (Properties) Dialog
---

![BDF Info dialog](bdfinfo.png)If your font contains bitmaps you may
want control over the BDF Properties associated with those bitmaps. Each
pixel size (bitmap strike) has its own set of properties.

The X11 consortium has defined certain conventional properties and
defines their meaning in the [X Long Font
Descriptor](http://ftp.xfree86.org/pub/XFree86/4.5.0/doc/xlfd.txt)
specification.

When you first create a bitmap strike (with [Element-\>Bitmaps
Available](../elementmenu/#Bitmaps)) it will have no properties
associated with it. If you then generate a bdf file based on that
FontForge will give you some default properties.

You may view these default properties in this dialog by pressing the
`[Default All] `button -- this will remove any current properties
(except for `RESOLUTION_Y`) and replace them with the defaults that
FontForge calculates).

You may select any property and press the `[Default This] `button to
find its default value (There are some properties that FontForge cannot
default, you'll have to figure these out yourself).

You may use the `[Delete] `button to remove a property.

You may use the up and down arrows buttons to move the selected property
up or down in the list (as far as I know, there is no functional reason
for doing this, but if your esthetics prefer a different ordering you
may enforce it).

To change a property name depress the mouse on it. You should get a list
of all standard properties. At the bottom of the property list is a
special line labeled "New...", clicking on it brings up the same popup
menu and allows you to create a new property.

To change the value of a property, click in the value field and type in
the new version.

To select a property without bringing up the popup menu or the editing
field, click on the extreme left of the property.

The one essential property that FontForge can't always guess correctly
is the resolution (in particular `RESOLUTION_Y`). When you press
`[Default All] `FontForge will retain the current value of this property
and base the others on it.
