---
published: true
layout: default
title: The dialog for editing Contextual or Chaining Contextual lookups
---

What is a Contextual Positioning lookup?
----------------------------------------

There are two types of contextual positioning modes: Contextual
Positioning and Chained Contextual Positioning. In the simplest form of
the first you may specify a list glyphs and specify repositioning to
occur if that sequence is matched. For example you might specify (in
English)
 `      5 t h`
 and if that sequence were found raise the "t" and "h" to 5^th^. You can
also specify classes of glyphs so you could say something like:
 `      [0-9] t h`
 to raise "t" and "h" after any digit.

After applying this lookup, a word processor will skip over the three
glyphs matched by the pattern, at least it will in a simple "Contextual
Positioning" lookup. The "Chained Contextual Positioning" lookup is a
bit more general and allows you to divide the pattern into three parts:
A part before the current glyph (called backtracking), a part including
the current glyph, and a part after the current glyph (called
lookahead). Positioning changes may only be made to the part including
the current glyph, and the word processor will advance by the number of
glyphs in that subset of the pattern.

What is a Contextual Substitution lookup?
-----------------------------------------

Substitutions come in three types. The first two are similar to the two
types for positioning, the third is designed to handle a very specific
case of arabic typography and is applied backwards.

Suppose you had a script font where most letters join at the base line,
but after some letters (b,o,v,w) the join is near the x-height, so a
special version of each lower case letter needs to be created designed
for a left side join near the x-height. You would want to be able to
say:
 `      [bovw] [a-z]`
 Note that this just specifies the cases in which the substitution may
be applied. It does not specify the substitution itself, that is done in
a separate lookup.

You may pull down an example script font with this substitution from
[FormalScript.tgz](http://fontforge.sf.net/sfds/FormalScript.tgz), this
example is worked out in detail in the
[tutorial](editexample6-5.html#Conditional).

More complete descriptions
--------------------------

For more information on contextual lookups see Adobe's Docs:

-   [The GPOS
    table](http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_table_formats2.html),
    for positioning glyphs
-   [The GSUB
    table](http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_table_formats1.html),
    for substituting glyphs
-   [The feature tag
    registry](http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_tag3.html).

How do these relate to Apple Advanced Typography features?
----------------------------------------------------------

In some cases a contextual or chaining contextual substitution can be
converted into one of Apple's contextual glyph substitution subtables.
See the page on [Apple Advanced Typography](../gposgsub/#sometimes)for
more information as to when and caveats about how.

Creating a contextual lookup
----------------------------

First you must create a contextual lookup with the [Element-\>Font
Info-\>Lookups dialog](../fontinfo/#Lookups), then in that same dialog
create and name a subtable in that lookup. Then the contextual editor
will open.

Editing a lookup
----------------

### ![](img/contextchain-format.png)Format

Except for the reverse chaining features, any of these may come in one
of three formats.

The simplest format is a list of [glyphs](#Glyphs). You may specify
several glyph sequences in a single feature. So the script example above
could be specified (quite inefficiently) by 4\*26 lines like:
 `      b a`
 `      b b`
 `      ...         o a`
 `      ...`

The next format allows you to specify a list of [classes](#Classes). In
the script example we would define 2 classes:
 `      [bovw]`
 `      [ac-np-ux-z]`
 and define two patterns as:
 `      class1 [class2]         class1 [class1]`

The third format is the most general and allows you to specify your
pattern by a [separate list of glyphs](#Coverage) for each glyph
position:
 `      [bovw] [a-z]`

Most contextual specifications are fairly simple, FontForge has two
dialog formats, one for simpler specifications and one for more
complicated ones. The complicated dialog is (I think) more difficult to
understand, but allows for greater generality.

In both the glyph and the class format you are allowed to specify
multiple matching rules (in the coverage format you may only specify one
rule. I know this sounds odd, I did not design the system).
**UNFORTUNATELY** the OpenType interpreters do not seem to support
multiple rules within a single subtable. Instead I suggest you use
multiple subtables. It will have the same effect but is less efficient.
FontForge still supports multiple rules because the spec says it should.


### ![](img/contextchain-simplecoverage.png)Simple Coverage

This display shows a list of three items, the first column consists of
coverage tables -- that is lists of glyphs. A match occurs if the
current glyph matches one of the glyphs named in the current coverage
table. The second column contains the name of a lookup that should be
applied to the glyph associated with the coverage table if the entire
rule matches.

As noted earlier the rule is divided into three sections, backtrack,
match and lookahead. The third column indicates when each section
starts. Lookups may only occur in the middle (the "match") section. If
you don't specify the start of each section FontForge will figure it out
for you assuming that the match section starts with the first lookup and
ends with the last. **WARNING:** this simple heuristic does not work for
ligatures. The match section must be long enough to provide all glyphs
that might be consumed by the ligature conversion.

This lookup does not directly describe how transformations are to happen
to the glyphs, merely WHEN. Instead it invokes a nested lookup that will
be applied to specific positions in the match string (positions in the
backtrack and lookahead lists may not be transformed).

So in the example at right, the first list of glyphs is a coverage table
in the backtrack section, while the second line starts the match
section. The rule says that if one of the letters [bovw] is followed by
any other letter, then the second letter should be transformed using the
nested lookup "To-TopJoin" (which will convert the glyph into an
alternate format). Here there is no need for a lookahead list (and there
is none).

### Setting a coverage table

You can change a coverage table by editing it. You may enter either
glyph names or unicode characters (which will be converted to a glyph
name -- a few characters which have special meaning: space, right
parenthesis, asterix; must have their names typed in full). If you click
on the little box on the right you will get a dialog containing a font
view. In this view you may select glyphs to your heart's content, when
you press OK these glyphs become your table.

### ![](img/contextchain-coverage.png) Coverage

This display shows a list whose entries are coverage tables -- that is
lists of glyphs. A match occurs if the current glyph matches one of the
glyphs named in the current coverage table.

In the example at right there is only a single coverage table here (but
there could be more).

In a Chaining Contextual feature it is also possible to specify a list
of coverage tables to match glyphs before the current glyph, and another
list to match glyphs after.

In the example at right, the lookup 'high' will be applied to any glyph
that matches the coverage table at the top of the list. Again the
buttons under the sequence lookup list allow you to add, change, remove
or reorder these transformations. (And yes, the order the
transformations are applied can matter in complex situations).

#### Creating or editing a lookup position pair

You can change a lookup by clicking on it, this will produce a pull down
menu of all lookups that can be applied. You can change the position by
editing it.

You can add a new entry by pressing the \<New\> button, and then
selecting a lookup.

### ![](img/contextchain-simpleglyph.png)Simple Glyphs

In the glyph format each rule allows you to specify a list of glyphs
that need to be matched along with lookups that should be applied to
appropriate glyphs after the match has been made.

Again each rule is divided into sections (here marked with the vertical
bar "|"). In the match section glyphs may be followed by lookup names,
and those lookups will be applied to the preceding glyph if a match
occurs.

So the example at right is an attempt to do with a series of glyph rules
what was done easily with one coverage table rule. Every possible
combination of letters must be spelled out as a separate rule.

At the bottom of the list are two buttons, one to add a lookup reference
after a glyph, and the other to start a new section. 

### ![](img/contextchain-glyphlists.png) Glyphs

This format allows you to specify several glyph lists to match. In the
example at right the string "A,B,C" will be matched in the glyphs before
the current glyph, then "D E" starting at the current location, and
finally "F G H" after them. If everything matched then the lookup
"Smallcaps" will be applied to location 0 (in this case "D") , and
"superscript" to location 1 (here, "E").

The order is significant, word processors will stop at the first match
they find so in the following pattern strings:
 `      b a`
 `      b a f`
 the second entry would never be matched because "b a" would be applied
first. While:
 `      b a f`
 `      b a`
 would apply match "b a f" when an "f" was present, and "b a"
otherwise.

### ![](img/contextchain-pickglyph.png)Selecting glyphs

The text field may be manipulated as above. However here we are
specifying a string of glyphs each of which must be matched, rather than
a class of glyphs any of which could match. So in the example at right,
"DE" would match, but "E" would not.

As above a set of lookups can be applied after the match occurs.

### ![](img/contextchain-simpleclasses.png)Simple Classes

When specifying a class match, you must specify at least one set of
glyph classes. If you only specify one set these classes will be used in
all sections, alternately each section may have its own set of glyph
classes. You may give each glyph class a name (if you don't then the
class will be named something dull like "1", "2", etc.)

You must also specify a list of patterns where each pattern is a list of
class names (or numbers).

Every set of classes has a magic class at index 0 which matches whatever
glyphs are not explicitly mentioned in another class. FontForge displays
this by calling it "{Everything Else}". You may not delete, edit nor
reorder this class. Other classes are just unordered lists of glyph
names (rather like coverage tables above), however any specific glyph
may belong to at most one class at a time (whereas a glyph may occur in
as many coverage tables as desired).

In the example at right, any letter that occurs after one of the special
letters [bovw] will be changed into an alternate form.

There is a small bug here. Because classes must be disjoint, the
"letters" class does not contain the letters [bovw]. So there actually
needs to be a second rule that looks like
`"high-after | high-after @<To-TopJoin> |"`. As I mentioned early,
multiple rules don't actually work, so that rule is in a separate
subtable (which is in the same lookup) and isn't displayed here.

### ![](img/contextchain-class.png) Classes



### ![](img/contextchain-classlist.png)A list of Class numbers

Once you have set up your classes, you may then edit the patterns you
want to match. To remind you of what your classes are, FontForge
displays the class list underneath the pattern. Clicking on a class will
insert that class's index into the pattern.

Finally you must set the nested lookups. This is exactly the same as
previous sequence / lookup settings.

-- [Up](../fontinfo/) -- [TOC](overview.html) --
