---
published: true
layout: default
title: The Font View
---


![](img/AmbrosiaFV.png)

The font view is a list of all the glyphs available in the given font.

You may chose to display it at various sizes, by default it will be
displayed with the outline font rasterized on a 24 pixel em square. You
may display it at 36, 48, 72 and 96 pixel sizes as well. You may also
choose to look at an anti-aliased greymap (the above image is
anti-aliased). These are slower to generate but look nicer
([Comparison](../AA-Comparison/)).

If you have an encoding slot which has nothing in it (as opposed to an
encoding which maps to a space glyph) then that will be shown by a faint
red X drawn across the box.

Above each image of the glyphs in the font is a label indicating the
glyph in some conventional format. Usually this is just a small image of
the glyph in a standard font (as it is above), but you can change it to
show the glyph's name, unicode code point or encoding (in hex). In small
views (24 pixel view for instance) there may not be room for the entire
label, and it will appear truncated.

![](img/fvOutOfDateHinting.png)If a glyph has been changed since it was last
hinted (PostScript), or if a glyph contains contours but has no
instructions (TrueType), then its label will be edged with blue bars. If
the glyph has out of date instructions (TrueType), then its label will
be edged with red.

If one of your glyphs has something in its background layer then this
will be indicated visually (currently by darkening the background of the
glyph label).

Normally the view will display the foreground layer of the font, but you
may change it to display any layer (other than the background layer)
with `View->Layers->?`

You may also display any of the bitmap fonts you have generated from the
outline glyphs. Simply go to the View menu and select the one you want.

If you look at a bitmap version of the font, and it does not contain a
glyph for which there is an outline glyph (ie. the font needs its
bitmaps regenerated) then the missing glyph will be outlined in red to
bring it to your attention more easily.

Small bitmap fonts will be magnified. If the pixelsize of the font is
less than 10 it will be shown 3 times normal size, if less than 20 twice
normal size.

Underneath the menu bar is some information on the last glyph selected.
First is the encoding of the glyph in the current font expressed in
decimal. Next is the unicode code point for the glyph (or ???? if it is
not a unicode character). Next the postscript name for the glyph, and
finally the unicode name. Not all unicode characters will have unicode
names (the CJK characters do not for example)

If you move the cursor to a glyph and let it rest there a small popup
window will appear containing information about that glyph. If you
depress the control key then this window is locked in place until you
move the mouse.

You may display metrics lines (baseline, origin and advance width) in
the font view. (View -\> Show H Metrics). If you do so, I suggest
viewing the font at a large pixel size, otherwise the window looks too
confusing.

![](img/FVHMetrics.png)

![](img/FVVMetrics.png)

A 96 pixel display showing the various horizontal metric lines.
 The blue line is the baseline
 The small red tick on the left marks the glyph origin.
 The green line on the right shows where the advance width is while the
bottom green line shows how long it is. (normally you will not display
both at once)
 The glyph is centered horizontally, and the font ascent is the top of
the box displaying it, while the descent is the bottom.

A 96 pixel display showing the various vertical metric lines.
 The blue line down the center is the vertical baseline.
 The red bar at the top (over writing the ascent line) is the vertical
origin.
 The green line at the bottom shows where the vertical advance  is while
the green line on the right shows how long it is.  (normally you will
not display both at once)

You may select any number of glyphs in the font by dragging through
them. You may use shift-click to select (or deselect) additional glyphs.
You may also use the arrow keys to move around (and shift-arrow to
select). To some extent the order you select glyphs in will be
remembered and a few commands will make use of that.

You may drag and drop selected glyphs into

The metrics view

Where they will be inserted into the display before the selected glyph
(selected in the metrics view) in the order in which you selected them
in the font view.

The outline view

Where they will appear as references

The glyph info substitutions/ligature dlg

Where they will appear as a substitution or ligature.

The [Tab] key will move to the next glyph with something in it, and
Shift-[Tab] will move to the previous glyph with something interesting.

You can perform various operations on the selected glyphs:

-   Apply a general transformation (ie. move 20 units right and then
    rotate 180°)
-   Expand all paths to be stroked paths
-   Clean up areas where several paths intersect
-   Simplify paths
-   Build Accented Characters
-   Regenerate bitmaps
-   Autohint
-   Control various metrics settings

And, of course, you can cut and paste. Normally copying a glyph will
copy that glyph and any bitmaps associated with it, but you can use the
Edit-\>Copy From menu item to change this so that only entries from the
currently displayed font are copied. So if a 12 pixel font is being
displayed then only the bitmaps from the 12 pixel bitmap font will be
copied in this mode. Cut and Clear will clear those things which would
be copied.

Paste is a little more complicated. In general it will paste whatever is
in the clipboard, regardless of the copy mode. So if the clipboard
contains a 12pixel bitmap and the font view is displaying outlines, then
pasting it will paste it into the 12pixel font none the less. There is
one exception to this. If the clipboard contains a 12 pixel bitmap and
the font view is currently display a 17pixel bitmap then the paste will
go into the displayed bitmap.

A Paste from the font view will delete whatever splines were in the
glyph beforehand (while a paste in the outline glyph view will merge the
new set of splines with the old). Paste from the font view will also set
the width of the glyph.

You can scroll the display to any particular character by typing that
character. There is also a dialog which allows a slightly more general
way of jumping around. You may type in the glyph's name (all glyphs in a
font will be named), its encoding value, its unicode encoding value, or
(for 2 byte fonts) its ku ten specification.

Pressing the right mouse button invokes a popup menu.

Encodings and Character Sets
----------------------------

A Character Set is a set of characters (for example all the letters of
the alphabet would be one character set). An encoding is a function that
takes a number (often between 0 and 255) and maps it to a character.
Often these two are used synonymously as an encoding generally implies a
given character set. (strictly speaking a character set is an unordered
collection with no implied encoding, and some encodings work with
multiple character sets).

All fonts in fontforge have both a character set and an encoding. The
character set is just the set of characters in the font. The encoding is
the way those characters are ordered (or sometimes, the way the first
256 are ordered). The font info dialog allows you to chose the encoding
(and character set) you wish for a font. Often a font will have a few
extra glyphs that don't fit into the character set specified by the
encoding, these glyphs will be placed at the end of the font and when
the font is output (ie. postscript is generated, or a bitmap font
created) the glyphs will be included in the font but they will not be
encoded (this can be useful, especially in postscript where it is
possible to reencode a font at run time. Thus a font might have all the
glyphs needed both for a cyrillic character set and for a latin one, but
only one character set at a time would be encoded).

It is possible for an encoding not to be one-to-one. That is there may
be several characters that might lead to the same underlying glyph (the
classic example is the non-breaking space which often uses the same
glyph as the breaking space). When FontForge encounters such an encoding
it will create a character structure for each entry, one of those
structures will contain the data for drawing the glyph, the other(s)
will contain a reference to the one real character. All characters will
have the same name. When FontForge generates a font it looks for this
case and turns it into a font whose encoding vector contains multiple
references to a glyph.

It is also possible to have an encoding where a single character can
lead to several different glyphs depending on the context. In arabic,
for example, most characters have at least four different glyphs
depending on whether the character is found initially, medially or
finally in a word, or if it appears by itself (isolated).

You may also create a custom encoding. (Generally, only the first 256
entries of a Custom encodings will actually be part of a font's encoding
vector). You may change the name of any glyph in the font with the
Element-\>Char Info command. This will force the font to have a custom
encoding.

There are many standard encodings built in to the program. There are 14
ISO 8859 encodings, the encoding used by the Macintosh for the US and
Western Europe, the encoding used by MS Windows for the US and Europe
(which is a slight extension of ISO 8859-1). There are also several
2-byte encodings built in. Several of these are subsets of unicode
(whose goal is to specify every character currently used by humans).
There are many large CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean) two byte encodings.
You can also add your own encodings with the
[Encoding](../encodingmenu/) menu. A brief description of what's in the
encodings also appears [on that page](../encodingmenu/).

There may be some slight differences between one vendor's definition of
an encoding and another. I try to follow those encodings specified by
the Unicode consortium. I notice that the Symbol encoding used by
Microsoft differs from the Unicode one (usually just be substituting
synonyms, Omega for Ohm sign for instance).

Adobe did not choose their naming conventions very well for Greek
letters. They assigned the name "mu" to Micro Sign, "Delta" to Increment
and "Omega" to Ohm Sign. So the Greek alphabet has ugly nameless holes
in it.

CID fonts (see [below](#CID)) have no encodings. Instead they are
designed to be associated with one or several cmap files which provide
encodings in a general way. cmap files are beyond the scope of
FontForge. Adobe has defined many which are freely
[available](http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/acrrasianfontpack.html).

There is one final encoding called "Glyph Order". This encoding is just
the glyphs in the order in which they were read from the original font.

### Unicode (ISO 10646)

PostScript® assigns a name to every unicode character. Some of these
names are fairly obvious like "A" for the first letter of the latin
alphabet, others are more obscure like "afii57664" for hebrew alef,
while others are just "uni8765" for the unicode character at 0x8765.

PostScript Unicode encoding does not quite mesh with the unicode
standard. This is probably because PostScript deals in glyphs and
Unicode deals with characters so PostScript sees no distinction between
space and nobreak space (and so does not encode the latter) while
Unicode does.

According to the [unicode website](http://www.unicode.org/) the first
256 character positions of unicode and ISO 8859-1 (ISO Latin1) are the
same. However the PostScript encoding of ISOLatin1 is slightly different
from that specified for unicode. I cannot explain the reasoning behind
this. FontForge does not use PostScript's ISOLatin1 Encoding vector,
instead it uses the first 256 code positions of the unicode encoding
vector (slightly modified by me to conform to Unicode conventions rather
than PostScript. So I include nobreak space and the soft-hyphen).

FontForge supports two slightly different unicode encodings. The first
contains only the first 65536 characters of unicode (those in the [Basic
Multilingual Plane](http://www.unicode.org/roadmaps/bmp.html), or BMP),
while the second can contain as many characters as you have memory for.
Character definitions are still sparse outside of the BMP so at the
moment you probably want to use just the BMP. Currently there are only
definitions for plane 0 (BMP, U+0000-U+ffff), Plane 1 ([SMP, Secondary
Multilingual Plane](http://www.unicode.org/roadmaps/smp.html),
U+10000-U+1ffff), Plane 2 ([SIP, Supplementary Ideographic
Plane](http://www.unicode.org/roadmaps/sip.html), U+20000-U+2ffff), and
Plane 14 ([SSP Supplementary Special-purpose
Plane](http://www.unicode.org/roadmaps/ssp.html), U+e0000-U+effff).

CID keyed fonts
---------------

The standard mechanisms that postscript provides work reasonably well
for alphabets and syllabaries, but the massive number of characters
needed for CJK (Chinese, Japanese or Korean) fonts require more complex
machinations. Adobe's current solution is the [CID-keyed
font](../cidmenu/#CID), a font consisting of several subfonts each a
collection of glyph descriptions with no encoding imposed on them and no
names given to them.

If FontForge loads in a CID keyed font it will enable a special menu
called [CID](../cidmenu/) which (among other things) displays the list
of all the sub-fonts in the font. When it starts up FontForge will pick
(practically at random) a sub-font to display in the font view. You may
change which font is displayed by the CID menu.

The CID menu also allows you to turn a normal font into a CID keyed
font. It creates a collection containing just the original font (you may
add other fonts, or blank fonts, later). But before it can create a
collection FontForge needs to know what glyph set you will be using. A
glyph set is just a collection of glyphs, and you may define your own if
you wish (but if you do you have to define your own cmap files, etc and
it's probably not worth it). Adobe has defined glyph sets for Japanese
(actually there are two, one corresponding to JIS208 and one to JIS212),
Korean (Wansung & Johab), Traditional Chinese (Big5) and Simplified
Chinese (GB2312). Although these glyph sets are based on the standards
mentioned, they each have many additional glyphs. Adobe also defines a
glyph set that works for Unicode, but it is called "Identity" instead.
FontForge does not have these glyph sets built in to it, each must be
loaded the first time it is used. I provide one file for each of the
above glyph sets, they have an extension of ".cidmap", and you may
download them all [from here](cidmaps.tgz).

(There are also many other character sets floating around feel free to
install them yourself).

Adobe identifies each glyph set by a three values: a registry, an
ordering and a supplement. The registry is the name of the organization
that is defining the glyph set (Adobe calls itself Adobe), an ordering
identifies the glyph set (Japan1, Korea1, etc.) and the supplement
indicates how many times the ordering has been revised. Glyphs may only
be added to an ordering, never removed, so an old font will be perfectly
described by a newer glyph set, while a new font described by an old
glyph set will have some unavailable glyphs. So a full cidmap name will
look like:
                 Adobe-Japan1-4.cidmap
                 Adobe-Korea1-2.cidmap

**Warning:** CID keyed fonts (actually any CJK font) use massive amounts
of memory in FontForge. I am able to work on many of them on my 256M
machine with 384M of swap space.

The [Remove Undoes](../editmenu/#Remove-Undoes)command will allow you
to free up memory if you think you may be running short. FontForge is
not always able to protect itself against running out of memory,
sometimes the OS just sends it a SIGKILL signal.

Multiple Master Fonts
---------------------

If the font is a [Multiple Master](../multiplemaster/#MM)Font there
will again be several subfonts only this time all the subfonts contain
the same glyph set. Each subfont provides glyphs for one style of the
font family. The [MM](../mmmenu/) menu allows you to control which
style of the family is visible in the font view, and provides a few
other commands for manipulating multiple masters.

Vertical Metrics
----------------

CJK fonts generally should have vertical metrics. Latin (Cyrillic,
Greek) fonts generally should not. If FontForge reads in a font with
vertical metrics it will retain those metrics, but when FontForge
creates a new font then that font will not have vertical metrics
enabled.

To enable vertical metrics for a font go to `Element->Font Info` and
select the `General` tab and check the
`[*] Has Vertical   Metrics `checkbox. This will allow you to set the
vertical origin for the font and it will give every glyph a default
vertical advance of the emsize of the font (ascent+descent).

The vertical origin is the y height (in the design coordinate system) of
the origin for vertical metrics.

In the outline glyph view you will be able to adjust the vertical
metrics just as you adjust the horizontal metrics.

You can view the vertical metrics in the font view just as you can the
horizontal metrics with View-\>Show V Metrics.

-- [Prev](editexample.html) -- [TOC](overview.html) --
[Next](../charview/) --
