---
published: true
layout: default
title: The histogram dialog
---

The histogram dialog is used to display three things which are useful
for setting the some of the global hinting values that live in the
PostScript [Private dictionary](../fontinfo/#Private). The dialog can
display

-   the distribution of horizontal stem widths
     which is helpful in setting [StdHW] and [StemSnapH]
-   the distribution of vertical stem widths
     which is helpful in setting [StdVW] and [StemSnapV]
-   and the distribution of the minimal and maximal vertical positions
    of each glyph
     which is helpful in setting [BlueValues] and [OtherBlues]

Moving the mouse around the histogram at the top of the dialog will
cause little popups to appear showing how many stems there are with a
given width, how that compares to the maximum count, and what glyphs
have that width.

For both HStem and VStem, if you click on a histogram bar then that
width will become the new value for Std[H/V]W, and will be the sole
value for StemSnap[H/V]. Shift-clicking on a bar will add that width to
StemSnap[H/V].

For BlueValues, entries must be made in pairs, and FontForge can't tell
until the second value is selected where the pair should be placed. So
for BlueValues you must click on two histogram bars (click on the
leftmost one first). Then if the second value is negative both will be
added to OtherBlues, otherwise both will be added to BlueValues.

The BarWidth textfield allows you to change the width of the histogram
bars. The default value is 6 pixels wide.

The SumAround textfield is an attempt to give you a feel for the
distribution if it has been smeared out. If SumAround is 0 then the
count displayed for a given width is the number of stems with that
width, if SumAround is 1 the count also includes the number of stems
that are one unit wider or less wide than the given value, and higher
values of SumAround give wider smearing. Just because a given width is
at a local maxima does not mean that it is the appropriate value to be
entered in the StemSnap array, you may find that if you smear things out
a bit that a near-by value would be a slightly better choice.

Pressing [OK] will set the indicated values in the font's private
dictionary.

When invoked from the [font info dialog](../fontinfo/#Private) these
dialogs will display information on all glyphs. When invoked from the
Hint-\>Histograms menu of the font view then only information on
selected glyphs will be shown (if no glyphs are selected, then again
information will come from all glyphs). Characters containing references
will not be counted.

FontForge can automatically generate these values for you (this dialog
gives you the information you need to make your own choices which may be
better than what FontForge will do on its own -- it uses essentially
these data itself). This will happen when you generate a postscript font
and the font has no BlueValues or StemSnap information associated with
it, or when you use the [Element-\>Font
Info-\>Private](../fontinfo/#Private) dialog.

-- [Prev](../hintsmenu/) -- [TOC](overview.html) --
[Next](../hintsmenu/) --


