---
published: true
layout: default
title: Preferences Dialog
---

-   ![](img/prefs-generic.png)[Generic](#ResourceFile)
-   [New Font](#NewCharset)
-   [Open Font](#PreferCJKEncoding)
-   [Navigation](#GlyphAutoGoto)
-   [Editing](#ItalicConstrained)
    -   [Synchronize](#AutoWidthSync)
    -   [TT](#ClearInstrsBigChanges)
    -   [Accents](#AccentOffsetPercent)
    -   [Apps](#PreferPotrace)

-   [Font Info](#FoundryName)
-   [Generate](#AskBDFResolution)
    -   [PS Hints](#Hints)
    -   [TT Instrs](#Instrs)
    -   [OpenType](#UseNewIndicScripts)

-   [Script Menu](#scripts)
-   Mac
    -   [Features](#Mac)
    -   [Mapping to OpenType](#Mapping)

    

![](img/prefs-generic.png)

ResourceFile

FontForge will read [X Resources](../../customizing/xres/) from a property on the
screen. But sometimes this isn't enough. You set this preference item to
specify a file from which these resources should be read (those on the
screen will also be read and will supersede those in the file).

HelpDir

FontForge will search this directory for help files when the user
presses [F1].

OtherSubrsFile

Allows you to redefine the OtherSubrs routines used in type1 fonts. The
file format is described at the scripting command
[ReadOtherSubrsFile](../../scripting/native/scripting-alpha/#ReadOtherSubrsFile).

FreeTypeInFontView

Normally FontForge will use the freetype library to generate glyphs for
display in the fontview. This is a bit slower, but creates better images
than using FontForge's built-in rasterizer. This preference item allows
you to control whether to use freetype or FontForge's own rasterizer.

SplashScreen

Controls whether a splash screen is displayed on start up.

UseCairoDrawing

FontForge can use its own drawing routines, or rely on Cairo library in
the [outline glyph view](../charview/). Using Cairo is slower, but
gives smooth curves, and subpixel display precision. New setting applies
only to windows created afterwards.

UsePangoDrawing

Controls whether FontForge uses its own interface text drawing routines,
or relies on Pango library. Using Pango slows down older machines, but
gives antialiased text, exotic Unicode support, and complex script
support. New setting applies only to windows created afterwards.

![](img/prefs-newfont.png)

NewCharset

The default encoding used to create new fonts. Normally this is ISO
8859-1.

NewEmSize

Specifies the default number of em-units in the em-square. For
PostScript fonts this should be 1000, for truetype fonts it should be a
power of two (often 512, 1024 or 2048 will be used).

NewFontsQuadratic

Splines in fonts may be either in quadratic or cubic format. TrueType
fonts use quadratic splines while PostScript (and OpenType) fonts use
cubic splines. When FontForge generates a font it will convert from
whatever format is used internally to whatever format is required for
the font, so there will be no problem if this is set incorrectly, but
setting it correctly for your font means you get a clearer idea of what
the outlines will look like.

LoadedFontsAsNew

When FontForge reads in a font it will generally keep the splines in the
format they used in the font (that is quadratic for truetype fonts and
cubic for postscript). If you set this flag then all loaded fonts will
have the same file format as that specified by NewFontsQuadratic above.

![](img/prefs-openfont.png)

PreferCJKEncoding

This controls the loading of truetype and opentype fonts. If a font
contains both an unicode encoding subtable and a cjk subtable, then this
item allows you to pick which one FontForge will choose to decode.

AskUserForCMap

When loading an sfnt (truetype, opentype font file), ask the user which
cmap encoding s/he would like to use.

PreserveTables

A string containing a list of 4 letter table tags separated by commas.
When loading an SFNT (ttf/otf) file, any table in the font with one of
these tags will be preserved without interpretation. (Note: If FontForge
thinks it understands the table it will parse it rather than preserving
it).

SeekCharacter

A unicode character (or a hex name for a unicode character, so either
"A" or "U+0041"), fontforge will attempt to scroll the display to this
character when it opens a font.

CompactOnOpen

Whether fontforge should make a font compact when it opens one (does not
apply to openning an sfd file which already knows whether it should be
compact or not).

![](img/prefs-navigation.png)

GlyphAutoGoto

In the glyph window this controls how ff behaves when the user types a
normal character. If this is On then when a normal character is typed
the glyph window will shift to display that character, if Off typed
characters will be ignored.

OpenCharsInNewWindow

Double clicking on a glyph in a [font view](../fontview/) can either
always create a new [glyph view](../charview/), or reuse an already
opened one.

![](img/prefs-editing.png)

ItalicConstrained

Whether constrained motion in the glyph view should allow motion
parallel to the italic angle as well as horizontal and vertical.

ArrowMoveSize

The number of em-units an arrow key will move a selected point in the
glyph view.

ArrowAccelFactor

When holding down the Alt (Meta) key, the arrow keys will move faster.
This preference item says how much faster.

SnapDistance

The maximum distance at which pointer motion in the glyph view will be
snapped to an interesting object (ie. a point, baseline, width line,
etc.). This is measured in pixels.

SnapToInt

When positioning points and control points, the mouse will move to the
nearest integral value. This is useful in editing TrueType (or
PostScript if you wish to save space in the font file).

JoinSnap

The maximum distance between the endpoints of two splines before they
will join with the Edit-\>Join command. This is measured in pixels in
the char view and em-units elsewhere.

StopAtJoin

When dragging points in the outline view, if the end point of one open
contour is moved onto the end point of another open contour then those
two contours will join. If you leave this Off then further motion will
continue to move the points, if you set this to On then FontForge will
stop noticing mouse movements (it pretends that you released the mouse
button). This is useful if you hand jitters a little on the mouse.

CopyMetaData

Controls the behavior of Edit-\>Copy from the fontview. Normally Copy
does not copy a glyph's metadata (name, encoding, etc.) but if this is
set then it will.

UndoDepth

Controls the maximum number of Undoes that may be retained in a glyph.
(In some rare occasions an Undo will be stored even if this depth is 0)

UpdateFlex

Figure out what points will be part of flex hints after every change to
a glyph. Points which are at the center of a flex hint will have a green
halo drawn around them. The criteria for flex hints are given on pages
72-73 of Adobe's
[T1\_Spec.pdf](http://partners.adobe.com/asn/developer/PDFS/TN/T1_SPEC.PDF).
This setting can be used to show you when those criteria are not met.

AutoKernDialog

Controls whether FontForge opens an [auto kern
dialog](../lookups/#Pair) for each new kerning subtable.

![](img/prefs-sync.png)

AutoWidthSync

Whether you want the widths of accented glyphs to track the width of the
base glyph (so if you modify the width of A then the width of À will
automagically change, if À is built as a reference to A and a reference
to grave)

AutoLBearingSync

Whether you want left side bearings of accented glyphs to track the left
side bearing of base glyphs (so if you shift A left, then the accent in
À will also be shifted left)

![](img/prefs-tt.png)

Clear Instructions on Big Changes

TrueType instructions refer to points by number. So if you do any
editing that adds, removes or otherwise changes the point numbers then
the instructions will be applied to a different set of points.

Sometimes the results are amusing, but almost always they are ugly and
wrong.

This is very different from having out of date PostScript Hints. There
the hints are probably just useless (as opposed to being actively bad,
as here).

FontForge will normally delete all instructions to prevent this
happening. However, if you are prepared to fix up the instructions after
a set of changes you may prefer to have the instructions left. Be
careful though!

CopyTTFInstrs

When copying and pasting in the font view, copy and paste instructions
as well as the glyph outlines. **WARNING**: If you copy a glyph from one
font to another its instructions will probably not work (it will make
assumptions about the control table and subroutines which do not hold in
the new font).

![](img/prefs-accent.png)

AccentOffsetPercent

The amount of space (as a percentage of the em-square) that should be
placed between an accent and the glyph below it by the Build Accented
Character command.

AccentCenterLowest

Whether accents should be positioned over letters based on the center of
the accent, or on the center of the bottom of the accent.

CharCenterHighest

Whether accents should be positioned over letters based on the center of
of the letter, or on the center of the top of the letter.

PreferSpacingAccents

Whether to prefer spacing accents (Unicode 02C0-02FF) or combining
accents (0300-036F) when building accented glyphs.

![](img/prefs-apps.png)

PreferPotrace

If you system has both potrace and autotrace installed this allows you
to specify which you'd prefer FontForge to use for autotracing.

AutotraceArgs

This allows you to specify any arguments you want passed to the
autotrace program. Don't try to pass something that will change the
input or output format or set input or output files.

AutotraceAsk

If this is set then each time autotrace is invoked it will ask you for
arguments.

MfArgs

This is the command passed to the mf (MetaFont) program which controls
conversion of .mf files into bitmaps.

MfClearBg

Loading a .mf font is a multi step process, first a bitmap font is
generated, it is loaded into the background, then autotrace is invoked
to trace around the backgrounds. These background bitmaps can take up a
lot of space and you may not want them after they have been autotraced.
Selecting this entry will remove those bitmaps from the font after they
have been used.

MfShowErr

The mf program generates a fair amount of verbiage even when it is
working correctly. And if it is working correctly you don't want to see
those words. So normally FontForge suppresses messages from mf. But if
something goes wrong you do want to see mf's output and setting this
will allow you to do so.

![](img/prefs-font.png)

Foundry Name

Used in generating bdf files (part of the X Windows font naming
convention).

TTF Foundry

Similar to the above except that it is used inside ttf files (the
achVendID field of the OS/2 table) and is limited to 4 characters.

NewFontNameList

Specifies the namelist that will be attached to any new font. This list
will be used to name any glyphs created in that font. See the section on
[namelists](../encodingmenu/#namelist) for more information.

RecognizePUANames

Originally Adobe used the PUA (public use area of unicode) to contain
glyphs for small caps, lower case numerals, etc. They have since changed
their minds and no longer recommend this usage. FontForge normally
recognizes names like "a.sc" as being mapped to the appropriate slot in
Adobe's old view of the PUA. If you don't like this behavior turn this
item off and "a.sc" will not have a unicode encoding.

UnicodeGlyphNames

Glyph names are supposed to be composed of ASCII letters and numbers
(and a few other characters). At least they are when they are stored in
a font. But when you are building a font and if you are not an English
speaker, it might be useful to have a wider range of letters available
for glyph names. You should never export these names when you generate a
font (Use the Force Glyph Names to field of the generate dialog).

AddCharToNameList

Some character names are barely understandable or unintuitive. While
editing opentype lookups having long lists of such names, confusion is
easy. A character itself may be appended to the name to make things
easier. 

![](img/prefs-generate.png)

AskBDFResolution

Normally FontForge will guess at what screen resolution you intend based
on the pixel size of the font (ie. 17 pixel fonts are usually 100dpi
(12pt) and 12 pixel fonts are usually 75dpi), but sometimes you will
have more esoteric desires. Setting this will give you more control, but
you have to click through another dlg.

AutoHint

Whether glyphs should be automagically hinted before a font is generated
or rasterized.

![](img/prefs-pshints.png)

StandardSlopeError

The maximum slope difference that still allows two elements to be
considered as parallel. Enlarging this value makes autohinter more
tolerable to small deviations from straight lines when detecting stem
hints.

SerifSlopeError

Serifs and other small features usually have to be allowed to deviate
from parallellness more than stem edges.

I am testing a few hinting options there are three radio button sets
which add the following hints:

PS Hints

![](img/hintboundingbox.png)

![](img/hintdiagonalinter.png)

![](img/hintdiagonalends.png)

HintBoundingBoxes
 Add hints around the bounding boxes of some glyphs. Adobe seems to do
this.

HintDiagonalInter
 Add hints at the intersections of diagonal stems

HintDiagonalEnds
 Add hints at the ends of diagonal stems.

More importantly there is also the DetectDiagonalStems option. Make sure
this is turned on if you intend to have FontForge [generate truetype
instructions automatically](../hintsmenu/#AutoInstr). 

![](img/prefs-ttinstrs.png) [Truetype
autoinstructor](../hintsmenu/#AutoInstr) bases its output on postscript
hints, but it has also its own options:

InstructDiagonalStems

Generate instructions for diagonal stem hints. For this option to be
useful, [DetectDiagonalStems](#DetectDiagonalStems) must be enabled
first. Enabling this will lessen apparent weight inconsistencies,
perceived at some sizes whenever horizontal and vertical stems are
controlled, but diagonals are not.

InstructSerifs

Try to detect serifs and other elements protruding from base stems and
generate instructions for them: try to control distances between serifs'
tips and their base stems.

InstructBallTerminals

Generate instructions for ball terminals. They need different handling
than other kinds of serifs.

InterpolateStrongPoints

Instructing stems is sometimes not enough. This option makes FontForge
to interpolate some important points (sharp corners, inflections, curve
extremes), not affected by other instructions, between stem edges. Both
parallel and perpendicular extremes are controlled. Agressive
optimization is employed, to still leave as many points as possible to
IUP, but manual review is nevertheless greatly adviced.

CounterControl

Make sure similar or equal counters remain the same in gridfitted
outlines. This was inspired by, but works somewhat independently from,
[PS Counter Hints](../charinfo/#CounterMasks). Enabling this option
means that proper shapes are more important than proper scaling of
advance widths.



![](img/prefs-opentype.png)

UseNewIndicScripts

MS has changed the way it handles indic scripts and has created a
parallel set of script tags for the new method. Set this flag if you
want to create a font using the new Indic system. 

![](img/prefs-script.png)This section of the dialog allows you to define
built in scripts that will show up in the [script
menu](../filemenu/#ScriptMenu). Each entry has two things associated
with it, the menu name and a script file. The menu name will be the name
of this entry inside the script menu, and the [script
file](../../scripting/native/scripting/) will be the filename of the file to be invoked.
The "..." button allows you to browse for script files, which I think
have extension .pe (but which can have whatever extension you prefer if
you don't like my conventions).

![](img/prefs-macfeat.png)The Mac Features dialog allows you to define a set
of default names (in many languages) for mac features and settings.
These names are placed in the 'name' table whenever a feature/setting is
used in a generated 'morx' table. (Thus if you have some common
ligatures in your font, then the "ligature" feature names, and the
"common ligature" setting names will be added to the 'name' table).

You may also use this dialog to establish which setting(s) should be on
by default in a given feature and whether the feature only allows one
setting to be on at a time (the settings are mutually exclusive). All of
this data may be overridden by the similar dialog in the [Element-\>Font
Info](../fontinfo/#Mac-Features)dialog.

![Mac Feature dialog](macfeature.png)To edit an existing feature double
click on that feature in the list (at right) this will bring up the
dialog on the left. Each feature must be assigned a unique number. You
should indicate whether it has mutually exclusive features or not. You
should provide names for the feature in various languages, and you
should provide settings for the feature.

To add a new name press the [New] button under the name list and you
will be prompted for a language and a name.

To add a new setting press the [New] button under the setting list. The
setting dialog contains the numeric value of this setting (Apple has
decreed that if the feature is not mutually exclusive, all settings must
be even numbers), whether this setting is on by default, and then a list
of names for the setting in as many languages as you like.
 ![](img/MacFeatName.png)![](img/macFeatureSetting.png)

![](img/prefs-macmap.png)The Mac Mapping dialog allows you to define a
mapping between OTF `GSUB` feature tags and Apple's
[`mort/morx   `](http://developer.apple.com/fonts/TTRefMan/RM06/Chap6morx.html)Feature/Setting
codes.

[Apple's published
list](http://developer.apple.com/fonts/Registry/index.html)of features
and settings appears out of date (in that some features used by current
fonts are not found in it).

A four letter OTF feature tag may correspond to a mac feature/setting
combination. If you wish to create a new mapping you must first insure
that the mac feature setting you desire is present in the feature list
(above), and then you may add the mappings.

![](img/MacMapping.png)You must specify a mac feature (which must already be
defined), a mac setting code and a 4 character opentype tag.

Other ways of configuring
-------------------------

A number of things that might be controlled from a preference window are
controlled by

-   [X Resources](../../customizing/xres/)
-   [Environment Variables](../cliargs/#Environment)

-- [Prev](../filemenu/) -- [TOC](overview.html) --
[Next](../filemenu/) --


