---
published: true
layout: default
title: Transform Dialog
---


![](img/transform.png)

This dialog is available in the font, outline and metrics views. In the
font view it applies to all selected glyphs. In the outline view if
there is a selection then it applies to that. if there is no selection
then it applies to the entire glyph.

You may choose whether you want the transformation to be centered at the
glyph's origin, the center of the selection (or of the glyph as a whole
if there is no selection), or the location of the last point on which
you clicked the mouse.

You may apply several different transformations at once:

Do Nothing

A very simple transformation.

Move

You may move the selection an arbitrary amount in the x and y directions

Rotate

You may rotate the selection an arbitrary number of degrees.

Scale

You may scale the two coordinates differently

Scale Uniformly

You may scale the two coordinates the same amount (which can of course
be done above, but it's slightly easier only to set one number).

Flip

You may flip either horizontally or vertically
 **Note: After flipping an outline you will almost certainly want to
apply [Element-\>Correct Direction](../elementmenu/#Correct).**

Skew

You may skew the selection a certain number of degrees (to create an
oblique font for example).

Rotate 3D Around...

You may do a three dimensional rotation of the glyph around either the X
axis or the Y axis. This operation is immediately followed by a
projection of the result back into the xy-plane (A rotation around the Z
axis is a normal rotaton (and isn't included here). 
 Following the rotation by a projection produces the same results no
matter what the sign of the angle (so there are no
Clockwise/CounterClockwise options here).

Move by Ruler

Fill in the amount to move from the x and y offsets of the last
measurements made with the [ruler tool](../charview/#Ruler).

Rotate by Ruler

Fill in the rotation angle from the angle of the last measurements made
with the [ruler tool](../charview/#Ruler).

Skew by Ruler

Fill in the skew angle from the angle of the last measurements made with
the [ruler tool](../charview/#Ruler).

If you are in the font view, and if [Copy From](../editmenu/#From) is
set to all fonts, then the transformation will also be applied to the
bitmaps. Not all of these transforms can be mapped to ones on the bitmap
font (arbitrary rotations, scales, etc. do not map). Only rotations by
90 degrees, flips, skews and moves will be approximated on the bitmap
glyphs.

If you are in the font view, then any pair-wise kerning information
whose first glyph is selected will be scaled (but not translated) by the
transformation matrix. Similarly and simple positioning features that
apply to a selected glyph will be transformed by the matrix (but again
not translated). You may choose to scale kerning classes as well.

If you are in the font view or the outline view and there is no
selection (and you are in the foreground) there is a "[] Transform
Background Too" check box. If you check this then anything in the
background will be transformed with the foreground.

If you check [] Round to Int then after the transformation has been
applied everything will be rounded to an integer value.

Transformations in the Outline glyph view are not applied to any
bitmaps. (Nor are transformations in the bitmap window mapped back to
the outline).

Non-Linear Transformations
--------------------------

![](img/non-linear.png)Non-linear transformations are defined by providing
two expressions, one of which results in the transformed value for the X
coordinate, the other provides the y coordinate. In the example at
right:

> *x' = 5·x^2^ + x + 3·sin(y)
>  y' = y*

Expressions may be made up of the usual C operators: "+", "-", "\*",
"/", "%", "!", "==", "\<", "\>", "\<=", "\>=", "!=", "&&", "||" and "?
:" as well as "\^" which means "raise to the power of". They may also
contain the standard functions: "log", "exp", "sqrt", "sin", "cos",
"tan", "atan2", "abs", "rint", "floor", "ceil".

Note: In non-linear transformations the result is only an approximation
to the correct result (A linear transformation will transform a cubic
spline to another cubic spline. A non-linear transformation may not).

![](img/PoV.png)Point of View Projection
------------------------------------

I have a hard time describing this. There are three different coordinate
systems involved. There is the (2D) coordinate system in which your
glyph has been drawn. There is a 3D coordinate system in which we embed
it, and finally there is another 2D coordinate system onto which we
project it.

Assume your eye is at the origin of 3 space, and you are looking up
along the Z axis. Assume that the plane in which your glyph has been
drawn is tilted by an angle theta (from the XY plane in 3 space) and the
intersection between the Z axis and the drawing plane is z units along
the Z axis. Assume that the projection plane is parallel to the XY plane
and is at a distance d along the Z axis.

![](img/Bperspective.png)Then for each point in the glyph we draw a line
between that point and your eye (which is at the origin). The location
where that line intersects the projection plane is the transformed
location of that point. Again the result is only an approximation.

The Point Of View dialog gives you a little more freedom than is
described above. It allows you to set the location of the eye (instead
of fixing it at the origin), and allows you to change in what direction
the vanishing point will lie (instead of fixing it on the y axis).

The dialog also calculates the location of the vanishing point as you
change fields (Note: It cannot figure out meta information like "Center
of Selection", so whenever the eye is positioned with this value, it
just assumes a value of 0 for that coordinate.

-- [Prev](../elementmenu/) -- [TOC](overview.html) --
[Next](../elementmenu/) --
