---
published: true
layout: default
title: X Resources
---


Every X application has an inordinate number of resources that you can
tweak. This one is no exception. However I don't follow standard
conventions, so it's all different. Sorry (a little anyway).

To use an X resource add a series of lines to your .Xdefaults file and
then run "\$ xrdb \~/.Xdefaults". For example:

>     Gdraw.ScreenWidthInches: 14.7
>     Gdraw.GGadget.Popup.Font: 10pt helvetica
>     Gdraw.Background: white
>     fontforge.FontView.FontFamily: Helvetica, GillSans

Some systems (the mac) will not automatically load X resources when
starting X, in this case you must explicitly tell fontforge where to
find a resource file with the preference item:
[File-\>Preference-\>Generic-\>ResourceFile](../../interface/prefs/#ResourceFile).

You may also use fontforge's resource editor ([File-\>X Resource
Editor](../../interface/resedit/))

If a resource begins with "`Gdraw.`" or "`fontforge.`" then the program
will look at it.

`fontforge.FontView.ChangedColor`

Sets the color used to mark changed glyphs.

`fontforge.FontView.GlyphInfoColor`

Sets the color used to dislpay information about selected glyph, betwen
the FontView menu bar and the glyph array.

`fontforge.FontView.SelectedColor`

Sets the background color of selected glyphs.

`fontforge.FontView.SelectedFgColor`

Sets the foreground color of selected glyphs.

`fontforge.FontView.EmptySlotFgColor`

Sets the color of crosses marking empty code points.

`fontforge.FontView.HintingNeededColor`

Sets the color of markings for glyphs that need hinting or instructing.

`fontforge.FontView.FontFamily`

A list of font family names to be used in the font view to display an
example character over each user character.

`fontforge.FontView.SerifFamily`

A list of font family names to be used in the font view to display an
example character over each user character when the character is one of
the stylized variants in U+1D400-U+1D7FF. Used for characters that
should be drawn with a serif font.

`fontforge.FontView.ScriptFamily`

![](img/script-A.png)A list of font family names to be used in the font view
to display an example character over each user character when the
character is one of the stylized variants in U+1D400-U+1D7FF. Used for
characters that should be drawn with a script font.

`fontforge.FontView.FrakturFamily`

![](img/fraktur-A.png)A list of font family names to be used in the font
view to display an example character over each user character when the
character is one of the stylized variants in U+1D400-U+1D7FF. Used for
characters that should be drawn with a fraktur font.

`fontforge.FontView.DoubleStruckFamily`

![](img/doublestruck-B.png)A list of font family names to be used in the
font view to display an example character over each user character when
the character is one of the stylized variants in U+1D400-U+1D7FF. Used
for characters that should be drawn with a double-struck font.

`fontforge.FontView.SansFamily`

A list of font family names to be used in the font view to display an
example character over each user character when the character is one of
the stylized variants in U+1D400-U+1D7FF. Used for characters that
should be drawn with a sans-serif font.

`fontforge.FontView.MonoFamily`

A list of font family names to be used in the font view to display an
example character over each user character when the character is one of
the stylized variants in U+1D400-U+1D7FF. Used for characters that
should be drawn with a monospaced font.

`fontforge.FontView.FontSize`

Point size of those fonts.

`fontforge.CharView.InfoFamily`

A list of font family names to be used in the outline and bitmap
character views for information messages.

`fontforge.CharView.PointColor`

Sets the color used to draw curved, corner or tangent points in the
outline character view.

`fontforge.CharView.FirstPointColor`

Sets the color of the first point on a contour.

`fontforge.CharView.SelectedPointColor`

Sets the color used to draw selected curved, corner or tangent points in
the outline character view.

`fontforge.CharView.SelectedPointWidth`

Sets the width of the line used to outline selected curved, corner or
tangent points in the outline character view.

`fontforge.CharView.ExtremePointColor`

Sets the color of a point which is an extremum.

`fontforge.CharView.PointOfInflectionColor`

Sets the color of a location which is a point of inflection.

`fontforge.CharView.AlmostHVColor`

Sets the color used to mark lines and curves which are almost, but not
quite horizontal or vertical.

`fontforge.CharView.NextCPColor`

Sets the color used to draw the "Next" control point.

`fontforge.CharView.PrevCPColor`

Sets the color used to draw the "Previous" control point.

`fontforge.CharView.SelectedCPColor`

Sets the color used to draw a control point that has been selected.

`fontforge.CharView.CoordinateLineColor`

Sets the color used to draw the coordinate axes.

`fontforge.CharView.WidthColor`

Sets the color used to draw the advance width line.

`fontforge.CharView.WidthSelColor`

Sets the color used to draw the advance width if it is selected.

`fontforge.CharView.GridFitWidthColor`

Sets the color used to draw the advance width once it has been grid fit
(if `View->Show Grid Fit` is on)

`fontforge.CharView.LigatureCaretColor`

Sets the color used to draw ligature caret lines.

`fontforge.CharView.RasterColor`

Sets the color used to draw the pixels of a rasterized bitmap (if
`View->Show Grid Fit` or `Hints->Debug` is on)

`fontforge.CharView.RasterNewColor`

Sets the color used to draw the pixels of a rasterized bitmap if they
have recently been turned on (if `Hints->Debug` is on)

`fontforge.CharView.RasterOldColor`

Sets the color used to draw the pixels of a rasterized bitmap f they
have recently been turned off (if `Hints->Debug` is on)

`fontforge.CharView.RasterGridColor`

Sets the color used to draw the pixel grid used by the rasterizer (if
`View->Show Grid Fit` or `Hints->Debug` is on)

`fontforge.CharView.RasterDarkColor`

When doing anti-aliased debugging, sets the color used for the darkest
pixel. Other pixels will be interpolated between this and the
background.

`fontforge.CharView.ItalicCoordColor`

Sets the color used to draw various horizontal metrics lines when they
have been skewed appropriately for an italic font.

`fontforge.CharView.MetricsLabelColor`

Sets the color used to label metrics lines

`fontforge.CharView.HintLabelColor`

Sets the color used to label hint lines (and blue value lines)

`fontforge.CharView.BlueValuesStippledCol`

Sets the color used to draw the BlueValues and OtherBlues zones.

`fontforge.CharView.FamilyBlueStippledColor`

Sets the color used to draw the FamilyBlueValues and FamilyOtherBlues
zones.

`fontforge.CharView.MDHintColor`

Sets the color used to draw minimum distance hints

`fontforge.CharView.DHintColor`

Sets the color used to draw diagonal hints

`fontforge.CharView.HHintColor`

Sets the color used to draw horizontal stem hints

`fontforge.CharView.VHintColor`

Sets the color used to draw vertical stem hints

`fontforge.CharView.ConflictHintColor`

Sets the color used to draw hints when they conflict

`fontforge.CharView.HHintActiveColor`

Sets the color used to draw a horizontal stem hint when it is active in
the review hints dlg.

`fontforge.CharView.VHintActiveColor`

Sets the color used to draw a vertical stem hint when it is active in
the review hints dlg.

`fontforge.CharView.HFlexHintColor`

Sets the color used to draw the halo around horizontal flex hints

`fontforge.CharView.VFlexHintColor`

Sets the color used to draw the halo around vertical flex hints.

`fontforge.CharView.AnchorColor`

Sets the color used to draw an anchor point

`fontforge.CharView.TemplateOutlineColor`

Sets the color used to draw a template outline. (not currently used)

`fontforge.CharView.OldOutlineColor`

Sets the color used to draw the original outline of a set of splines
being transformed with one of the transform tools (flip, rotate, scale,
etc.)

`fontforge.CharView.TransformOriginColor`

Sets the color used to draw the origin of the current transformation.

`fontforge.CharView.GuideOutlineColor`

Sets the color used to draw outlines in the Guide layer.

`fontforge.CharView.GridFitOutlineColor`

Sets the color used to draw outlines which have been gridfit (this
should probably be the same as BackgroundOutlineColor as both are in the
background layer).

`fontforge.CharView.BackgroundOutlineColor`

Sets the color used to draw background outlines.

`fontforge.CharView.ForegroundOutlineColor`

Sets the color used to draw foreground outlines.

`fontforge.CharView.BackgroundImageColor`

Sets the color used to draw background images.

`fontforge.CharView.FillColor`

Sets the color used to draw a character's fill

`fontforge.CharView.TraceColor`

Sets the color used to draw the trace of the freehand tool.

`fontforge.CharView.Rulers.FontSize`

Sets the point size of the font used in the rulers and the info bar. If
the font is too big text will be clipped.

`fontforge.CharView.Measure.Font`

Select the font used to display the information shown in the window
associated with the measure tool.

`fontforge.DebugView.Font`

Select the font used to display the truetype instructions being
debugged.

`fontforge.DVRaster.Background`

Sets the background color of the raster window in the debugger.

`fontforge.MetricsView.AdvanceWidthColor`

Sets the color for the grid lines in the metrics view when nothing
special is happening to them.

`fontforge.MetricsView.ItalicAdvanceColor`

In an italic font, this will be the color used to draw the line at the
italicAngle which corresponds to the italic advance width.

`fontforge.MetricsView.KernLineColor`

Sets the color for the grid line in the metrics view which currently may
be moved to change a glyph's kerning.

`fontforge.MetricsView.SideBearingLneColor`

Sets the color for the grid line in the metrics view which currently may
be moved to change a glyph's right side bearing (or bottom side
bearing).

`fontforge.MetricsView.SelectedGlyphColor`

Sets the color for the currently selected glyph in the metrics view.

`fontforge.MetricsView.Font`

Select the font used to display labels in the metrics view.

`fontforge.BDFProperties.Font`

Sets the font used in the BDF Properties dialog for stand alone text

`fontforge.Combinations.Font`

Sets the font used in the kern and anchor combinations dialog for
labelling the combinations

`fontforge.CVT.Font`

Sets the font used in the 'cvt ' table dialog

`fontforge.GlyphInfo.Font`

Sets the font used in the glyph info dialog for stand alone text

`fontforge.Groups.Font`

Sets the font used in the Groups dialog

`fontforge.Histogram.Font`

Sets the font used in the Histogram dialog

`fontforge.KernClass.Font`

Sets the font used in the kern class and pair dialogs

`fontforge.LayersPalette.Font`

Sets the font used in the layers palettes dialog

`fontforge.Math.Font`

Sets the font used in the Math dialog

`fontforge.Math.BoldFont`

Sets the bold font used in the Math dialog

`fontforge.OFLib.Font`

Sets the font used in the Open Font Library browser dialog

`fontforge.SearchView.Font`

Sets the font used in the find and replace dialog

`fontforge.SearchView.BoldFont`

Sets the bold font used in the find and replace dialog

`fontforge.SFTextArea.Font`

Sets the font used in the Print dialog and its variants dialog -- except
I don't think this ever gets used.

`fontforge.ShowATT.Font`

Sets the font used in the Show ATT dialog

`fontforge.ShowATT.MonoFont`

Sets the monospaced font used in the Show ATT dialog

`fontforge.Splash.Font`

Sets the font used in the splash screen and About FontForge dialog.

`fontforge.Splash.ItalicFont`

Sets the italic font used in the About FontForge dialog

`fontforge.StateMachine.Font`

Sets the font used in the Apple state machine dialog

`fontforge.TilePath.Font`

Sets the font used in the Tile Path dialog

`fontforge.TilePath.BoldFont`

Sets the bold font used in the Tile Path dialog

`fontforge.ToolsPalette.Font`

Sets the font used in the Tools Palette dialog for labelling tool
options

`fontforge.TTInstruction.Font`

Sets the font used in the various dialogs which edit truetype
instructions ('fpgm' table, glyph instructions, etc.)

`fontforge.Validate.Font`

Sets the font used in the Validate dialog

`fontforge.View.Background`

Sets the background color for the drawing areas of the fontview, glyph
view, bitmap view and metrics view.

`fontforge.Warnings.Font`

Sets the font used in the Warnings dialog

`Gdraw.ScreenWidthCentimeters`

A double. (centimeters)
 X usually does not know the physical width of a screen (it knows the
logical, pixel width). Gdraw's internals are based on points rather than
pixels, and it will sometimes pick a font that is too small or too large
if it relies on X's idea of how wide the screen is.

`Gdraw.ScreenWidthInches`

A double. (inches)
 Same as the above, except measured in inches.

`Gdraw.ScreenWidthPixels`

An integer (pixels)
 When X creates a virtual screen it may not be possible for Gdraw to
find the actual number of pixels on the screen. This again will throw
off point calculations.

`Gdraw.ScreenHeightPixels`

An integer (pixels)
 When X creates a virtual screen it may not be possible for Gdraw to
find the actual number of pixels on the screen. This is not used in
point calculations.

`Gdraw.Depth`

An integer (1, 8, 16, 32)
 You can use this to request a different depth than the default one. Not
all servers will support all depths. If FontForge can't find a visual
with the desired depth it will use the default depth.

`Gdraw.VisualClass`

A string ("StaticGray", "GrayScale", "StaticColor", "PsuedoColor",
"TrueColor", "DirectColor")
 FontForge will search for a visual with the given class (and possibly
depth if the depth argument is specified too).

`Gdraw.Colormap`

An string ("Current", "Copy", "Private")
 You can use this to control what FontForge does about the colormap on
an 8bit screen

-   Current -- FontForge will attempt to allocate its colors in the
    current colormap.
-   Copy -- FontForge will allocate what colors it can and then copy the
    current color map into a private copy. This means FontForge has
    access to a much wider range of colors, and (as long as the shared
    colormap doesn't change) FontForge's colormap will match that of the
    rest of the screen.
-   Private -- FontForge will allocate a private colormap and set the
    colors just as it wants them. It will almost certainly not match the
    shared colormap.

`Gdraw.DoDithering`

An integer (0 or 1)
 You can use this to turn off dithering of images on an 8bit screen.

`Gdraw.MultiClickTime`

An integer (milliseconds)
 The maximum amount of time allowed between two clicks for them to be
considered a double (triple, etc.) click.

`Gdraw.MultiClickWiggle`

An integer (pixels)
 The maximum number of pixels the mouse is allowed to move between two
clicks and have them still be considered a double click.

`Gdraw.TwoButtonFixup`

A boolean
 On a windows keyboard use the modifier key with the flag on it to
simulate mouse button 2 (middle button). If this key is depressed when a
mouse button is pressed or released then pretend it was button 2 that
was pressed or release.

`Gdraw.DontOpenXDevices`

a boolean

Various people have complained that when FontForge attempts to open the
devices of the wacom graphics tablet, the X server gives a BadDevice
error. I can't duplicate this, the open works fine on my system, but
this resource allows them to tell fontforge not to try to use the
tablet.

`Gdraw.MacOSXCmd`

A boolean
 On Mac OS X the user will probably expect to use the Command (apple,
cloverleaf) key to control the menu (rather than the Control key). If
this is set then the command key will be mapped to the control key
internally.

`Gdraw.MultiClickWiggle`

An integer (pixels)
 The maximum number of pixels the mouse is allowed to move between two
clicks and have them still be considered a double click.

`Gdraw.Keyboard`

ibm | mac | sun | ppc | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3
 Allows you to specify the type of keyboard. Currently this is only
relevent when generating menus. The modifier keys are in different
locations on different keyboards (under different operating systems) and
if FontForge knows what keyboard you are using it can make the hot-keys
have better labels.

-   ibm | 0
     Uses the Control and Alt keys
-   mac | 1
     Uses the Command and Option keys (Mac OS/X, Mac keyboard)
-   ppc | 3
     Uses the Control and Command keys (Suse ppc linux, Mac keyboard)
-   sun | 2
     Uses the Control and Meta keys

`Gdraw.SelectionNotifyTimeout`

An integer (seconds)
 Gdraw will wait this many seconds after making a request for a
selection (ie. when doing a Paste). If it gets no responce after that
period it reports a failure.

`Gdraw.Background`

A [color](#color)
 Gdraw will use this as the default background color for the windows.

`Gdraw.Foreground`

A [color](#color)
 Gdraw will use this as the default foreground color for dialogs.

`Gdraw.GGadget.Popup.Foreground`

A [color](#color)
 Specifies the foreground color of popup (tooltip) messages.

`Gdraw.GGadget.Popup.Background`

A [color](#color)
 Specifies the background color of popup messages.

`Gdraw.GGadget.Popup.Delay`

An integer (milliseconds).
 Specifies the amount of time the cursor must remain motionless before a
popup message pops up.

`Gdraw.GGadget.Popup.LifeTime`

An integer (milliseconds).
 Specifies the length of time the message will display.

`Gdraw.GGadget.Popup.Font`

A [font](#font)
 Specifies the font to use in a popup message.

`Gdraw.GGadget.Progress.FillCol`

A [color](#color)
 Specifies the color of the progress bar in the progress window.

`Gdraw.GGadget.Progress.Background`

A [color](#color)
 Specifies the background color of progress window.

`Gdraw.GGadget.Progress.Font`

A [font](#font)
 Specifies the font to use in a progress window.

`Gdraw.GGadget.ImagePath`

A unix style path string, with directories separated by ":". The
sequence "\~/" at the start of a directory will be interpreted as the
user's home directory. If a directory is "=" then the installed pixmap
directory will be used.
 Specifies the search path for images. Specifically those used in the
menus, and those used in various gadgets listed below.

`Gdraw.GGadget...`

Every ggadget in enclosed in a box. No gadget is actually a GGadget, but
every other gadget inherits (potentially with modification) from this
abstract class. The following information may be supplied for any box:

`...Box.BorderType`

one of "none", "box", "raised", "lowered", "engraved", "embossed",
"double"
 For a description of these see the css manual.

`...Box.BorderShape`

one of "rect", "roundrect", "ellipse", "diamond"
 Describes the basic shape of the box. (some ggadgets must be in
rectangles).

`...Box.BorderWidth`

An integer (points)
 Specifies the width of the box's border in points (NOT pixels)

`...Box.Padding`

An integer (points)
 Specifies the padding between the interior of the box and the border

`...Box.Radius`

An integer (points)
 Specifies the radius of a roundrect. Ignored for everything else.

`...Box.BorderInner`

A boolean (true, on or 1, false, off or 0)
 Specifies whether a line should be drawn inside the border.

`...Box.BorderInnerCol`

A [color](#color)
 Specifies a color of line that should be drawn inside a border.

`...Box.BorderOuter`

A boolean (true, on or 1, false, off or 0)
 Specifies whether a black line should be drawn outside the border.

`...Box.BorderOuterCol`

A [color](#color)
 Specifies a color of line that should be drawn outside a border.

`...Box.ActiveInner`

A boolean (true, on or 1, false, off or 0)
 Specifies whether a yellow line should be drawn inside the border when
the gadget is active (not all gadgets support this).

`...Box.DoDepressedBackground`

A boolean (true, on or 1, false, off or 0)
 Changes the color of the background while a button is depressed.

`...Box.GradientBG`

A boolean (true, on or 1, false, off or 0)
 Draws a gradient from GradientStartCol (at top and bottom edge) to
Background (in the center).

`...Box.BorderBrightest`

A [color](#color)
 The color of the brightest edge of the border (usually the left edge)

`...Box.BorderBrighter`

A [color](#color)
 The color of the next to brightest edge of the border (usually the top
edge)

`...Box.BorderDarkest`

A [color](#color)
 The color of the darkest edge of the border (usually the right edge)

`...Box.BorderDarker`

A [color](#color)
 The color of the next to next to darkest edge of the border. (usually
the bottom edge)

`...Box.NormalBackground`

A [color](#color)
 The color of a normal background (not disabled, not depressed)

`...Box.NormalForeground`

A [color](#color)
 The color of a normal foreground (not disabled)

`...Box.DisabledBackground`

A [color](#color)
 The color of a disabled background .

`...Box.DisabledForeground`

A [color](#color)
 The color of a normal foreground.

`...Box.ActiveBorder`

A [color](#color)
 The color of an ActiveInner border.

`...Box.PressedBackground`

A [color](#color)
 The color of a depressed background.

`...Box.GradientStartCol`

A [color](#color)
 Only meaningful if GradientBG is set. Draws a gradient of colors for
the background with this color as the start point at the top and bottom
edges of the gadget, and Background as the end point in the center of
it.

`...Font`

A [font](#font)
 Specifies the default font for a ggadget.

`Gdraw.GButton...       Gdraw.GDefaultButton...       Inherits from GButton       Gdraw.GCancelButton...       Inherits from GButton       Gdraw.GLabel...       Gdraw.GDropList...       Gdraw.GListMark... controls       the shape of the mark used to show the menu of a combo box.       Gdraw.GRadio... affects the       text of the radio       GDraw.GRadioOn... -- affects the shape used (above, the diamond to the left       of the text) of an on radio button        GDraw.GRadioOff... -- affects the shape used of an off radio button        Gdraw.GCheckBox...       GDraw.GCheckBoxOn...       GDraw.GCheckBoxOff...       Gdraw.GTextField...       Gdraw.GComboBox... Inherits       from GTextField       Gdraw.GComboBoxMenu...       Inherits from GComboBox (This is the box drawn around the GListMark in a       ComboBox)       Gdraw.GNumericField...        Inherits from GTextField       Gdraw.GNumericFieldSpinner...        Inherits from       GNumericField       Gdraw.GList...       Gdraw.GScrollBar...       Gdraw.GScrollBarThumb...       Gdraw.GGroup... -- a frame around groups of gadgets.       Gdraw.GLine...       Gdraw.GMenu...       Gdraw.GMenuBar...       Gdraw.GTabSet...`

As above.
 Specifies the box, font, color, etc. for this particular type of
ggadget.

`Gdraw.GHVGroupBox`

**Don't use it!** Old versions of X resource editor saved `Gdraw.GGroup`
under this name. That was wrong, as it was never actually recognized by
X Resource loader and had no effect. The confusion is because we
actually have two gadgets: `GGroup` and `GHVBox`, that are supposed to
work in tandem. Actually, only `GGroup` is worth styling.

`Gdraw.GHVBox`

A group of gadgets that sits inside `GGroup` and supports graceful
reflow of window contents in event of resizing. Modelled after GTK
boxes. It's supposed to be invisible, but interface developers might
actually want to style it.

`Gdraw.GScrollBar.Width`

An integer (points)
 Specifies the scrollbar width in points (for horizontal scrollbars it
specifies the height)

`Gdraw.GListMark.Width`

An integer (points)
 Specifies the width for the little mark at the end of comboboxes and
drop lists.

`Gdraw.GListMark.Image`

A filename of an image file
 Will be used instead of GListMark.Box if present. This is either a
fully qualified pathname, or the filename of an image in the pixmap
directory.

`Gdraw.GListMark.DisabledImage`

A filename of an image file
 Will be used instead of GListMark.Box for disabled (non-clickable)
instances, if present. This is either a fully qualified pathname, or the
filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GMenu.Grab`

A boolean
 Controls whether menus do pointer grabs. Debugging is easier if they
don't. Default is for them to do grabs.

`Gdraw.GMenu.MacIcons`

A boolean
 Controls whether menus show shortcuts as the standard mac icons
(cloverleaf for Command key, up arrow for shift, \^ for control and
wierd squiggle for Option(Meta/Alt)) or as text ("Cnt-Shft-A"). Default
is True on the mac and False elsewhere.

  ---------------------------- -------------------------------
  ![](img/MenuWithMacIcons.png)\   ![](img/MenuWithoutMacIcons.png)
   True                         False
  ---------------------------- -------------------------------

`Gdraw.GRadioOn.Image`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "On" state of a radio button. (This is drawn
within the `GRadioOn` box, if you intend the image to be the entire
radio marker you should probably make the `GRadioOn` box be a blank
rectangle). This is either a fully qualified pathname, or the filename
of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GRadioOn.DisabledImage`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "On" state of a disabled (non-clickable) radio
button. (This is drawn within the `GRadioOn` box, if you intend the
image to be the entire radio marker you should probably make the
`GRadioOn` box be a blank rectangle). This is either a fully qualified
pathname, or the filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GRadioOff.Image`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "Off" state of a radio button. (This is drawn
within the `GRadioOff` box, if you intend the image to be the full radio
marker you should probably make the `GRadioOff` box be a blank
rectangle). This is either a fully qualified pathname, or the filename
of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GRadioOff.DisabledImage`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "Off" state of a disabled (non-clickable) radio
button. (This is drawn within the `GRadioOff` box, if you intend the
image to be the full radio marker you should probably make the
`GRadioOff` box be a blank rectangle). This is either a fully qualified
pathname, or the filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GCheckBoxOn.Image`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "On" state of a check box button. (This is drawn
within the `GCheckBoxOn` box, if you intend the image to be the complete
check box marker you should probably make the `GCheckBoxOn` box be a
blank rectangle). This is either a fully qualified pathname, or the
filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GCheckBoxOn.DisabledImage`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "On" state of a disabled (non-clickable) check box
button. (This is drawn within the `GCheckBoxOn` box, if you intend the
image to be the complete check box marker you should probably make the
`GCheckBoxOn` box be a blank rectangle). This is either a fully
qualified pathname, or the filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GCheckBoxOff.Image`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "Off" state of a check box button. (This is drawn
within the `GCheckBoxOff` box, if you intend the image to be the sole
check box marker you should probably make the `GCheckBoxOff` box be a
blank rectangle). This is either a fully qualified pathname, or the
filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GCheckBoxOff.DisabledImage`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "Off" state of a disabled )non-clickable) check
box button. (This is drawn within the `GCheckBoxOff` box, if you intend
the image to be the sole check box marker you should probably make the
`GCheckBoxOff` box be a blank rectangle). This is either a fully
qualified pathname, or the filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GVisibilityBoxOn.Image`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "On" state of a visibility box button. (This is
the "eye" drawn within the layers palette of glyph view). This is either
a fully qualified pathname, or the filename of an image in the pixmap
directory.

`Gdraw.GVisibilityBoxOn.DisabledImage`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "On" state of a disabled (non-clickable)
visibility box button. (This is the "eye" drawn within the layers
palette of glyph view). This is either a fully qualified pathname, or
the filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GVisibilityBoxOff.Image`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "Off" state of a visibility box button. (This is
the "eye" drawn within the layers palette of glyph view). This is either
a fully qualified pathname, or the filename of an image in the pixmap
directory.

`Gdraw.GVisibilityBoxOff.DisabledImage`

A filename of an image file.
 Used for drawing the "Off" state of a disabled (non-clickable)
visibility box button. (This is the "eye" drawn within the layers
palette of glyph view). This is either a fully qualified pathname, or
the filename of an image in the pixmap directory.

`Gdraw.GMatrixEdit.TitleFont`

A font.
 The font used to draw titles in a GMatrixEdit. By default this is
smaller and bolder than the font used for text in the matrix edit.

`Gdraw.GMatrixEdit.TitleBG`

A color.
 Background color used for the titles of a matrix edit.

`Gdraw.GMatrixEdit.TitleFG`

A color.
 Foreground color used to draw the text of the titles of a matrix edit.

`Gdraw.GMatrixEdit.TitleDivider`

A color.
 Color used to draw the divider lines in the titles of a matrix edit.

`Gdraw.GMatrixEdit.RuleCol`

A color.
 Used to draw the horizontal and vertical lines in the body of a matrix
edit.

`Gdraw.GMatrixEdit.FrozenCol`

A color.
 Used to draw text in a cell which is frozen (cannot but updated by the
user)

`Gdraw.GMatrixEdit.ActiveCol`

A color.
 Used to draw text in the cell which is active (and used for the
"\<New\>" entry).

...

Colors

Colors may be specified as:

-   rgb(r,g,b)
     where r,g and b are doubles between 0 and 1.0
-   argb(a,r,g,b)
     where a,r,g, and b are doubles between 0 and 1.0
     (The alpha channel is only supported in windows with cairo -- that
    is the glyph view. Alpha 1.0 is fully opaque, alpha 0.0 should be
    fully transparent, values in between are translucent. Since drawing
    something fully transparent has no effect, FontForge treats
    transparent spot colors as fully opaque).
-   rgb(r%,g%,b%)
     where r, g, and b are doubles between 0% and 100%
-   hsv(h,s,v)
     A color expressed as hue (between 0 and 360), saturation (0.0 and
    1.0) and value (0.0 and 1.0)
-   hsl(h,s,l)
     A color expressed as hue (between 0 and 360), saturation (0.0 and
    1.0) and luminosity (0.0 and 1.0)
-   r g b
     where r, g, and b are decimal integers between 0 and 255
-   \#rgb
     where r, g, and b are hex digits between 0 and 15 (0xf)
-   \#rrggbb
     where rr, gg, bb are hex numbers between 0x00 and 0xff
-   \#aarrggbb
     where aa, rr, gg, bb are hex numbers between 0x00 and 0xff
     (The alpha channel is only supported in cairo windows. If alpha is
    0, then fontforge will treat the color as opaque because drawing a
    completely transparent spot color does nothing).
-   \#rrrrggggbbbb
     where rrrr, gggg, bbbb are hex numbers between 0x0000 and 0xffff
-   or one of the color names accepted on the net (red, green, blue,
    cyan, magenta, yellow, white, black, maroon, olive, navy, purple,
    lime, aqua, teal, fuchsia, silver)

Fonts

A font may be specified as:
 \<boldness\> \<italicness\> \<pointsize\> \<familyname\>
 (I know the order looks a bit weird but that's what is used by css).

-   \<boldness\> can be:
    -   nothing -- the font is not bold
    -   bold -- the font is bold
    -   a number -- (between 0 and 999), a numeric value that gives some
        idea of how bold the font should be. 200 would be a light font,
        400 an normal font, 700 a bold font and 999 and ultra-black
        font.

-   \<italicness\> can be:
    -   nothing -- the font is not italic
    -   italic -- the font is italic
    -   oblique -- the font is oblique (italic)

-   \<pointsize\> can be:
    -   nothing -- a default point size is chosen
    -   a number followed by "pt" -- specifies the point size.

Examples

-   bold 14pt helvetica
     Helvetica Bold at 14 points
-   italic 10pt times
     Times italic at 10 points

Keyboards and Mice.
-------------------

FontForge assumes that your keyboard has a control key and some
equivalent of a meta key. FontForge works best with a three button
mouse.

Almost all keyboards now-a-days will have the needed modifier keys, but
which key is used for what will depend on the keyboard and the OS (for
instance XDarwin and suse linux use quite different mappings for the
modifier keys on the mac keyboard). Usually this is only relevant for
menus (and mnemonics). FontForge tries to guess the keyboard from the
environment in which it was compiled. But with X this may not always be
appropriate. So the "[Gdraw.Keyboard](#Keyboard)" resource
above may be used to change this. (Currently this setting only control
the labels that appear in menus for the hotkeys).

Mice are more problematic. On PCs we usually have two button mice and on
mac single button mice. Many linuxes that run on a PC will give you an
option of simulating the middle button of the mouse by depressing the
left and right buttons simultaneously. FontForge will also allow you to
simulate it by holding down the super key (usually this is the one with
the picture of a windows flag on it) while depressing either mouse
button.

On the mac I don't see any good way of simulating a three button
mouse...

-- [Prev](errrecovery.html) -- [TOC](overview.html) --
[Next](cliargs.html) --
